Taking the story forward, uh, the months leading up to his assassination,
what, what, uh, w what do you understand why he was assassinated?
W w who are the players involved? Maybe.
Could you have stopped it?
Well, I'll tell you,
after I saw Reagan's face on the television saying we have the absolute proof,
the phone rang, and it would Barry.
I hadn't heard from him in a couple of years. And he said,
I'm coming out tonight. Roger and oh boy.
So, uh, he came out and he said, I'll meet you in this, uh, French restaurant.
I don't even know it in Santa Barbara.
And I walked in there's about 20 or 30 people in there. And he was all 30,
40 years old women, wood, plastic, or leather skirts,
and me and their blue jeans. And I looked around and Barry was at the back.
He was leaned up and he'd gained weight. And I walked up and I said, Barry,
you wired. He said, no. I said, well,
I'm not going to talk the DEA agents. He said, every one of them.
Uh, with jeans and skirts, I, like.
I said, well, Barry, almost at you. And you just talked to me, but in,
tell me what's on your mind.
And you sit there and he just went to token and he told me about,
he was left holding the bag. And it, uh.
What do you mean by that? Like that nobody's supporting them.
I know that he was, um, and I don't know this. I mean, this is just what,
what happened, uh, putting it all together,
that he had some CIA buddies that was pretending we go into
supply all over north wind arms. And with that,
you can land cocaine back here by the tongue.
So he's taking his little planes and putting some AK 40 sevens and maybe
ammunition or whatever, and takes it down to the conscious, uh, against the,
you come in Easter party of Nicaragua where we've been landed and Oliver
north was involved in this. So, uh, when, uh, when all that,
and so his CIA buddies was certainly involved. We know that they were,
and Barry had been in the CIA earlier when he first got out of school. So,
uh, when, when, um, as I say,
the hit the fan, they all fled and left Barry holding the bag, the.
CIA and the DEA. Yeah.
Or no, not the DEA, the CIA DEA, what Nana CIA was,
was still in that cocaine, bringing it in. And, uh.
Just to clarify, what's Iran, Contra scandal.
What was the alleged involvement of the CIA in,
uh, in using drug trade to fund things? What do you know,
what do you think is true? What should we know?
No,
what I knew was true that Barry was taking a small amount of arms back to
central America and giving them to whoever Oliver north group group,
where, who is all over north,
who was a Colonel that got implemented normal pro government down.
And so they said, all right,
we're getting a gun from Iran and we're taking cocaine to pay for. Yeah.
Since Congress won't give us money to fight this war, we go,
now we're going to circumvent it. So that was, that was a whole thing.
So.
It was a CIS effort to circumvent the funding
mechanisms of government by selling drugs. Yes.
But it was a handful of Renegade,
CIA agents that would Barry's friends that was making a load
load of money. Tons of it. Come up. If you would like to read the book, uh,
the big white lie, the CIA and the crack cocaine epidemic,
the CIA put according to this, uh, uh,
the book and Michael Lavonne. I didn't remember his name.
Last time I talked, uh, wrote that book and he was a, uh, head CIA agent.
Uh, he was the head DEA agent that exposed this and the CIA tried to kill him.
And he says they put crack cocaine. They developed their,
their chemistry developed crack. And they put it in every country,
every city in the United States on one weekend. So, uh,
they were bringing it up by the tones and that's for sure.
And Barry was bringing it.
Okay. Can I ask you a small tangent question?
Do you think the public should trust the CIA and the
DEA?
Do you think they're mostly good people that are carrying out a good mission
because this kind of makes it sound like there's Renegade agents that are just
doing whatever the hell they want and with, uh,
sometimes no regard for human life.
Well, that's certainly true, but that's not everybody in there.
That's just sometime you get a few policemen in the department that do these
things. I don't believe, I believe that our government is, is good.
I think we've got some fools running it. I don't know how we get them there, but
I don't want to think. I know. Okay.
So what was Barry's involvement here.
And very, very lean back in that chair. And he told me that, you know, he'd,
uh,
he got caught with one and a half tons and a belt it in the runway in
Nicaragua and, uh,
had cameras flashing inside and out.
And then he flew it back to homestead with, with an agent there.
And he brought the agent over, um, Jake Jacobson,
really nice fellow. I think he was a crop duster and we'd got along,
had been on the right side. And, uh, so we, uh, we sit there and drink Chevys,
Regal. And until I got pied and, and, uh, Barry told me about it.
He said that he went to see ed would meet. She flew his,
he got out on bail and he flew his Learjet up to Washington and went in to see
the attorney general Edwin Meese. And they run him out of the office.
The next day, he went back and said,
I have absolute proof that the CIA is bringing tons of cocaine.
Are they running Sonya cocaine into the United States?
And it would mean putting moved with this agent Jacobson. I believe it was.
And they went down and got one and a half tons. And on the way back,
they bailed it in and Pablo Escobar and some of the other ones on general there
in Nicaragua, you can see him toting it from one point to the other ship.
And the book call the big nose, uh, Kings of cocaine.
It's got a mention the me too. And also the other one has, uh,
mentioned to me in,
it said I'm in more files for the DEA than Noriega.
So who was wanting to get rid of Barry? Is it, is it the,
who wanted to get rid of Barry Moore, the cartels or the CIA.
The cartel, but, uh, show Barry leaned back. And he, and he,
he told me the story and the tears came down between his fingers and he put his
hands over his eyes and he said, I couldn't do it. Roger.
I just couldn't do three life sentences. So I've told him everything.
I went to Congress and I've testified before Congress.
And he testified before Congress, all these things that he'd done. And he said,
I told them all about you, but you're under my umbrella.
You got to testify with me before grand jury and Miami.
And so the guy said, you can come down. The DEA agent said,
you can come down tomorrow with Marie first class,
or I'll take you down in chains.
And if you don't testify with Barry,
the only place you'll ever see your wife and family again,
is in a federal prison visiting room. Was that.
A difficult conversation? Oh.
Looking no, no. My eyes, my guts was just like ice water.
I can't testify against my friends. I just can't do it.
How am I going to do it? I just, I can't work with people.
And he was honest with me. How am I going to testify against them?
I can't spend the rest of my life in a federal prison. What on earth?
What a mess, Barry. You've got me into. So, uh,
is that a kind of.
Betrayal there?
Yes, but it still, I wish he left me out of it.
I don't understand him getting his, it in such a mess that he told,
because if the CIA and whoever else was behind him, betrayed him,
then he's going to tell everything if you, so I says, all right,
I'll be to Miami. So Mara and I flew down first-class and I,
and I went to a lawyer, one of the biggest lawyers in Miami, and I said, man,
I am in a mass. This fellow has told everything.
And I've got to say something, but I'm not a snitch, man. I mean, I can have,
what can I do? And he said, well, being a snitch is like being pregnant.
You either are, or you're not.
And he says, I don't represent snitches. But if you want to fight this case,
I'll do it for $600,000. And when my face turned red, well,
I'm not a snitch. He said, well, that's what you're talking about. He said,
let me tell you something.
If you go in there and say one thing and signed that paper and you don't tell
them everything, you know? Yeah.
Then they will convict you of everything you've ever done. And you've told them,
so you can't do it. So, uh, I said, Barry,
I'm having trouble with a lawyer. Give it a go tomorrow. Let's go. So,
all right, use my lawyer. And he gave me his cards, a lawyer's card.
So Mara and I went to the festival restaurant that night and Barry and Debbie
came in, she would dress pretty. And Barry was,
and so we had already bought finished. So we had dessert together and I said,
Barry, they're going to kill you friend. He said, no, I ain't going to kill me.
So and so such and such, he's gone. And this, another hush bear,
they going to kill you, man. Ain't no, you can't deny it. And ah,
you're nauseous. I didn't tell him I want him to testify. So I hugged his neck.
I really like, and we fled to Brazil,
but I took Mari and the children went to Brazil.
So he decided there, you're not going to find.
You and storm weren't going to die. I didn't know what I could do.
I talked to her lawyer. I mean, I just didn't, I didn't know what,
what I could do, but the best in Miami said what he told me.
So I had to go.
And he went to Brazil.
We went to have a conversation with anybody at the cartel. I mean,
that's such an interesting moment that test the man's character
to not snitch.
And did you have a conversation with anybody? No.
Pablo with no about it. Like.
So it's just understood.
I just didn't couldn't do it.
But how many men, like you are there?
Not many.
I had all my friends testified against me at 11 friends and every one of them
put their finger up. Roger did it now I was facing life,
continuing criminal enterprise care. Well, you couldn't do it.
I just couldn't do it.
You ever get respect from the cartels for that? From the floor?
They was all the time I got back and stuff.
They owed me money and I can't get it.
Oh, well that's about money. I just mean about human beings.
Oh, I think so. I've been back down there and I've been welcomed. I have my, uh,
my contact and uh, when I was in Brazil, I was trying to get this money.
They owe me three and a half million dollars.
So I called up there and he was gonna pay me. Oh,
I got 600,000 today and I'll get you some more tomorrow.
And then the next week I called, Hey, Hey guys, great news. Great news. Barry.
Seal's been killed. So, oh no. And I went back to the hotel.
We was up in Northern part of Brazil. And what was it? Muddy? Uh,
yeah. And, uh, so I went back and I told Mari and Miriam and, uh,
and they cried and I cried. I really cried. How.
How's that great news from the cartel?
Well, now there is no case against me and him and them.
Do you know who killed them? Yes.
I'll tell you about that story. On the first load I did. I landed in, uh,
at a banana plantation and it was raining and it was a muddy strip clay.
And they put the 300 kilos of cocaine in, in the ugliest man.
You could imagine named Rinaldo, got in there with a Mac 10 and, uh,
he was making sure I took it to Louisiana.
So this is many years before. Yeah.
Couple of years before. So anyway, he, uh, uh,
we took off and the mud got up in the wheel wheel. So,
so thick until the wheels wouldn't come up. Well,
I'm going 200 miles an hour instead of 300 miles a wheel coming out. Well,
I can't go back there if I do.
I'm going to be in the same situation till the sun dries it out in a few days.
And so, but in beliefs,
I had a runway that we'd been used for $10,000 used to refuel.
So I told the guy, listen, we got to land in beliefs to refuel and no, no, no.
He put to make 10 and I'll shoot you, go ahead. Food. You're going to die too.
So it was in a term. So.
He wasn't just ugly. He was also.
He was a bad, bad killer. And so, uh,
he's the one to actually kill a Barry.
The one that went up on the first load with me and are
now though, and he's doing, he's just a killer. Yeah.
He doing life in Louisiana.
Who, uh, is it known who made that decision?
Uh, the younger, uh, Ochoa brother.
I understand Favio which wasn't paid for the hit. I don't know that,
but that's what I've heard. And it's probably sounds about right. He's,
he's done in Jesup, Georgia doing a long, long time.
I think he's about to get out. He's been in 30 years or whatever.